//Introduction:

Source: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/data-analytics-microsoft/1-introduction

Data :  transactional data in a traditional database, telemetry data from services that you use, to signals that you get from different areas like social media

A retail business should be able to use their vast amounts of data and information in such a way that impacts the business, including:
Tracking inventory
Identifying purchase habits
Detecting user trends and patterns
Recommending purchases
Determining price optimizations
Identifying and stopping fraud

//Overview of data analysis

Data analysis is the process of identifying, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to discover meaningful and useful information. 
The data is then crafted into a story through reports for analysis to support the critical decision-making process.

To analyze data, core components of analytics are divided into the following categories:
Descriptive
Diagnostic
Predictive
Prescriptive
Cognitive

Descriptive analytics:
Descriptive analytics help answer questions about what has happened based on historical data. Descriptive analytics techniques summarize large datasets to describe outcomes to stakeholders.
By developing key performance indicators (KPIs), these strategies can help track the success or failure of key objectives. Metrics such as return on investment (ROI) are used in many industries, and specialized metrics are developed to track performance in specific industries.
An example of descriptive analytics is generating reports to provide a view of an organization's sales and financial data.

Diagnostic analytics:
Diagnostic analytics help answer questions about why events happened. Diagnostic analytics techniques supplement basic descriptive analytics, and they use the findings from descriptive analytics to discover the cause of these events. Then, performance indicators are further investigated to discover why these events improved or became worse. Generally, this process occurs in three steps:
Identify anomalies in the data. These anomalies might be unexpected changes in a metric or a particular market.
Collect data that's related to these anomalies.
Use statistical techniques to discover relationships and trends that explain these anomalies.

Predictive analytics:
Predictive analytics help answer questions about what will happen in the future. Predictive analytics techniques use historical data to identify trends and determine if they're likely to recur. Predictive analytical tools provide valuable insight into what might happen in the future. Techniques include a variety of statistical and machine learning techniques such as neural networks, decision trees, and regression.
Prescriptive analytics
Prescriptive analytics help answer questions about which actions should be taken to achieve a goal or target. By using insights from predictive analytics, organizations can make data-driven decisions. This technique allows businesses to make informed decisions in the face of uncertainty. Prescriptive analytics techniques rely on machine learning strategies to find patterns in large datasets. By analyzing past decisions and events, organizations can estimate the likelihood of different outcomes.

Cognitive analytics:
Cognitive analytics attempt to draw inferences from existing data and patterns, derive conclusions based on existing knowledge bases, and then add these findings back into the knowledge base for future inferences, a self-learning feedback loop. Cognitive analytics help you learn what might happen if circumstances change and determine how you might handle these situations.
Inferences aren't structured queries based on a rules database; rather, they're unstructured hypotheses that are gathered from several sources and expressed with varying degrees of confidence. Effective cognitive analytics depend on machine learning algorithms, and will use several natural language processing concepts to make sense of previously untapped data sources, such as call center conversation logs and product reviews.
